(playful whistling music)
Next up, we want to talk about sort of the final
one in our little mini, four-video series of alignment
here, and it's called align-self.
Now, we've been looking at one two or three years ago
called align-items, and by default you'll remember that
the default is stretch - if you can spell stretch.
And in a refresh, you'll see the stretching from
top to bottom.
We had other ones like flex-start, and that will start
them at the top.
We have flex-end, and that will start them at the end.
You get the point here.
What I want to do real quick, just so we can see, is
I'm going to leave it at flex-start, and I'm just going
to give it like box 2, a height - or, maybe not a
height - we'll say padding-bottom - 200.
A box 6, padding bottom zero.
A box 9, padding bottom 50.
So I just want to like give each one a little bit different
so that we can see this is how they anchor themselves.
Again, if we switch it to flex-end, they're going to
anchor themselves from the bottom and grow up there.
So, that's great, but like, what if you wanted just one
of these to have some sort of other attribute there?
And that's where align-self comes in.
So, if I take this box 9, say align-self, we can say
flex-end.
Now, flex-end was going to just overwrite the flex-start.
So by default, we just apply it right on the container,
but we can apply it on an individual item, and we can
say things like flex-end, and that will just overwrite
that specific use case.
Now, we can use any of our align items on it, so I can say
something like center, it'll pop it right in the center.
We also have baseline, which is going to use the font
so by default, you're not going to see anything there.
And we have the stretch, if you want to bring it back
to that, and that will just stretch just that one on
a cross.
So, that is align-self.
It's kind of handy, it's exactly like align-items except
you can apply it on a case-per-case basis on an
individual flex item, rather than the entire
flex container.
In the next video, we're going to be looking at how
we can use flex units to be able to size our items.
(upbeat whistling tune outro)